My name is Aliza Hutchison.
I'm with QuickTime Product Marketing.
It's my great pleasure today
to have two speakers for you.
We have Gudrun Enger, the Director of
Communications for ACM SIGGRAPH,
and we also have Dave Bergivin,
Director of
Technical Operations for SOMA Media.
So I would like to ask if we could hold
all of our questions until the end and
we'll do a short question and answer.
And with that,
I invite Gudrun up on to the stage.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
Again, my name is Gudrun Enger.
I'm the ACM SIGGRAPH Director for
Communications.
That is my volunteer
position at ACM SIGGRAPH.
For my day job,
I work at Stanford University.
And I'm here today to tell you
just a little bit about my role.
I just want to tell you a little
bit about our organization.
I want to tell you why we chose
Soma Media to do our product
and what our plans are for 2004.
And then I'm going to turn it over to
Dave and he's going to give you the
technical background of the product
because that's of course why you're here.
ACMC Graph,
for those of you who don't know,
is a professional computer society.
It stands for the Association of
Computer Machinery Special Interest
Group Computer Graphics
Interactive Techniques.
We are a volunteer run organization
with about 6,500 members.
The majority of our members
are extremely technical.
They are researchers.
They come from industry and education.
One of our events every year is
our annual conference which is
typically held the end of July,
beginning of August.
We have anywhere from 20,000 to
50,000 attendees at this conference.
The other events and activities that we
do as part of our association include:
chapters, educators program,
symposia and other co-located events.
The annual conference is our
biggest program but it is not
our only program but it is where
we have the most visibility.
This year's conference will be in
Los Angeles the second week of August.
We have technical programs
which include papers,
panels, courses, sketches which are short
innovative new research.
We have special sessions.
We also have a keynote
and awards ceremony.
In addition to the technical part of
the conference we also have an art show,
an educators program,
the electronic theater and computer
animation festival which the clip
we just showed you from that.
And of course a large exhibit hall.
So one of our main goals,
we try to do a membership survey every
couple of years and one of the things
that was continually coming out in the
membership survey was that our members
wanted to see more content from the
conference and have it accessible online.
And so we, over the past three years,
2001, 2002, 2003,
we've been doing pilot experiments to
see the best way to capture that content,
the best way to deliver it,
how to put it online,
how to keep it safe,
all these kind of things.
Last year we teamed up with
Soma Media to capture a small
portion of our conference,
basically all the technical
content that was in two of the
largest rooms at the conference.
That included most of the papers,
a couple courses, some sketches,
and a couple special sessions.
This product proved to be very
successful with our membership.
We had originally anticipated
that we would just offer
it online and we decided,
Soma was pushing really hard to get us to
do a DVD product of it and the executive
committee of ACMC Graph was not so sure,
but in the end we decided to do the
DVD in addition to the online version.
online streaming application and the
DVD sold really well at the conference,
it sold really well after the conference.
We've probably had more interest
generated about the DVD than
the online streaming version.
So we're really pleased
with how that's worked.
In the future though we do hope to,
you know, we plan to continually offer
both because ACM has a component
called the digital library,
and all of our content from the
conference goes into the digital library,
so the OSA from SOMA will
go in there as well.
It's just another member benefit
that we're pleased to offer.
The reason we chose SOMA is the solution
that they offer is really cross platform.
It's not browser dependent,
which a lot of the other
solutions out there are.
It works well on Macs and PCs.
We have a large Mac population,
highly technical users.
A lot of the creative folks
use it as well as a lot of the
researchers and technicians.
So, we're really excited to be able
to offer this to our customers.
It's a flexible system by
offering the DVD and the OSA.
We were able to allow people to take
it on the road with them as well
as sit and use it in their office.
And overall we're just really
pleased with how it turned out.
Our plans for 2004 are to
expand the content capture.
We plan to capture all of the
technical content at the conference.
So that's all the papers, courses,
panels, sketches, special sessions.
And it's in ten rooms.
It's approximately 300 contributors
with a lot of technical content.
So, we're really excited to be able
to offer that to our customers.
And we're really excited to be able
So, we're really excited to be able
to offer that to our customers.
And we're really excited to be able
And we're really excited to be
able to offer with 250-300 hours of
video and PowerPoint presentations.
The other thing that we're doing this
year is we're only going to capture
video in the two largest rooms.
For the other smaller rooms we're
going to do just a head shot
with the slides and the audio.
So I now want to turn it over to
Dave Bergevin who will explain
exactly how it was accomplished.
Thanks.
Thank you very much, Gudrun, Aliza.
For the past several years,
Apple Computer has recorded the
proceedings of its worldwide developers
conference on DVD-ROM and the web.
When did it be great if every
single conference we attended
would also be recorded?
If that were the case,
we would not miss a keynote speaker.
We would not miss a single session.
We'll be able to see the session we wish
and see it any number of times we want.
We would be able to instantaneously
jump to the presentation we want to see,
to that particular
slide we want to study,
and we'd be able to review the
material sufficiently to absorb
the knowledge being disseminated.
We would move our exposure to the
material from the level of awareness
to the level of comprehension.
This ability would allow us to
jumpstart our research in our
respective areas of interest.
This newfound ability would also
allow our colleagues who may not be
able to attend the conference the
opportunity to share in the knowledge
being disseminated at the conference.
SOMA Media specializes in creating
knowledge dissemination solutions
to help organizations distribute
their content beyond the walls
of the conference center.
In 2003, ACM SIGGRAPH hired SOMA Media to
record a portion of their
conference on TVD-ROM and the web.
This year we're recording the whole
SIGGRAPH 2004 conference and also
putting it on DVD-ROM and the web.
Today I'm excited to be here to
present the process of creating
the 2003 DVD-ROM and our
online streaming application,
or as we refer to it as the OSA.
Okay,
so here's the agenda for this morning.
I'll briefly talk about Soma Media,
our company,
the benefits to conference recording,
what you'll learn in this session,
and then we'll go in-depth
on the case study for the
ACM SIGGRAPH DVD-ROM and OSA.
Then I'll talk about the
technology framework,
the technologies we used,
and the workflow,
the improvements that we're
going to introduce in 2004,
and then I'll conclude and we'll
have time for some questions.
So SOMA Media specializes in
knowledge dissemination solutions.
We work with the organization to come
up with a custom solution for them.
We provide complete end-to-end solutions
starting with the logistics from
pre-production all the way to delivery.
We handle the speaker permission forms.
We capture the content.
We compress it for DVD,
DVD-ROM or the web.
We author the content.
We create the interface,
do all the design and the packaging.
And we do the sales and marketing,
including all the print materials and
having a sales booth at the conference,
including a sales team.
So here are some of the benefits.
Obviously, recording the conference is a
great way to create an organized
archive of that conference.
Currently, right now, there are, I think,
eight other presentations going on.
So because this conference
is being recorded,
you know you'll have access
to the other presentations.
As well,
when it's available online or on DVD-ROM,
people that couldn't attend a
conference can still participate
and actually see the content that
was presented at the conference.
A huge benefit also is being able
to watch it on your own time.
This is great.
I mean,
you pop it into your computer or you
go online on the Internet and you
choose to watch the presentations
when you want to watch them.
And finally,
recording a conference can be
a revenue-generating source
for conference organizers.
It can help to offset the
expenses related to actually
recording the conference.
So what you'll learn in this session
is our knowledge dissemination
solution that we came up with
for SIGGRAPH working with them.
I'll talk about capturing
content efficiently.
How to avoid the bottlenecks and
developing a workflow with your
software and the technology that you're
going to use to develop the project.
So here we're going to go in
depth right now onto the case
study for the ACM SIGGRAPH 2003
conference presentations.
So at SIGGRAPH 2003,
there were some physical constraints.
We weren't recording
the whole conference.
We were recording only
two presentation rooms,
the main two presentation rooms which
included most of all the paper sessions,
some of the courses.
It was five days of recording
and this resulted in about 800
gigabytes of video that was digitized
on the fly at the conference.
We also captured over 40 gigabytes
of PowerPoint presentations
and extra videos,
including 101 total
PowerPoint presentations
and 140 extra videos.
So what we delivered was over
62 hours of video on two DVDs,
115 presentations.
This included over 4,000
synchronized slides and 140 of
those videos were synchronized with
their PowerPoint presentations.
So we had a two-disc DVD-ROM set.
The first disc was the paper's disc.
It was on a 9-gig DVD-ROM.
The second disc included the keynote,
the courses, the special sessions,
and the sketches, and that was actually
on a 4.7-gig DVD-ROM.
And then finally we created the
online streaming application.
So we captured 78 out of
the 81 paper presentations.
I believe the three presentations
we didn't capture were due
to copyright problems that we
weren't allowed to record them.
We captured the keynote,
the four courses that were presented
in the two rooms we recorded,
four of the special sessions,
and one sketch.
So these were the technical
requirements for producing this product.
We had to come up with a cost-effective
solution with a low sale price.
The price of the DVD was $79 for
non-members and $59 for members,
so we had to keep the cost low.
It had to be cross-platform,
so it had to work seamlessly on
a Mac and a Windows platform.
It had to work also on
the Internet and DVD-ROM.
Another important criteria is
the slides had to be legible,
so the presentation screen,
which I'll show you in a few minutes,
had to be big enough so that
you can read all of the text
displayed in the PowerPoints.
We also included chapter lists.
I'll go through what the chapter list is.
It basically divides the presentation,
allows you to navigate the
presentation by the slide titles,
so each presentation is divided
into their slide titles,
and you can jump to any part
of the presentation seamlessly.
We had to include as many
extra videos and demos.
SIGGRAPH shows a lot of demos,
similar to here at this conference
where they show a lot of different
types of demos of new technologies.
And everything had to be synchronized.
The final requirement, we actually,
there was already AV crews in
the two rooms and we had to
work with their technology and
find a way to link that to ours,
our setup.
Now we also handled the
sales and marketing.
So we included all the
marketing materials.
This included flyers that were
in all of the conference bags,
posters.
We had two booths at that
conference and a sales team.
We worked with ACM SIGGRAPH to
come up with an online ordering
system and we have a website with an
online working demo of the product.
Now we also had to deal with
the speaker related issues,
which meant collecting all
the speaker permission forms.
Since it had not been recorded,
speakers had to be contacted
and we had to collect all of
their speaker permission forms,
collect also their slides,
all their extra videos and demos.
So we set up an FTP site for
them to upload their information.
We also had to include,
we had to remove the
copyrighted images and sounds.
A lot of presentations at
SIGGRAPH refer to films,
movies and a lot of times you
don't have permission to actually,
you can show it at the conference,
but you can't actually show
it or record it for the DVD.
Okay, so let's move to the demo.
Actually, can we have the other demo,
the one on the G5?
Okay,
so this is the paper's desk and I'll
go through the interface a little bit.
We had to develop--every year SIGGRAPH,
I guess, they come up with a design for
the conference with graphics and
logos and certain fonts and styles.
So we created an interface that
worked with their design requirements.
We also wanted to create an
interface that was easy on your eyes,
because if you're going to
watch a presentation that's 25,
30 minutes long,
you don't really want something.
You want something that's
very easy to look at.
We developed the interface like a player,
so you can easily move through.
You can easily select any
presentation by their event.
Here it's the paper's disc.
And each paper topic,
we divided it by day, so you have Monday,
July 28th, and if you scroll down,
you go all the way to Thursday.
And these are each of the session titles.
So if you click on a session title,
There are four presentations that
were presented during that session.
You'll see the speaker pick
and their title of their talk.
We'll click on Vivek.
So your video plays here and your
PowerPoint presentations are here.
So it's fairly large screen size.
And just to begin, you simply press play.
Here are a few examples of what we are
able to achieve using our technique.
Here is an image of two water
lilies that we found on the web.
So you see it's all
completely synchronized.
It'll keep switching the slides
throughout the presentation.
This presentation also includes
some of the demos and animations.
This one is showing an animation,
so we integrated it and synchronized
it inside the presentation.
Now as I mentioned before,
this is the chapter list.
So you click on it and you'll notice,
if you notice in the scrubber,
you're actually moving through the
presentation all by their slide titles.
So here's a thing on the patch placement.
And here's another video that
was included in the presentation.
This is the original draft sequence
from the video text newspaper.
Note is the intermittent.
Okay, we'll select another topic.
Now, as I mentioned before,
we had copyright issues
that we had to deal with.
This individual, Alice Sheffer,
she actually had a picture of
Madonna that was taken from a magazine.
So what we did was, it's right over here,
we blocked it out.
We had to do that on a number
of presentations where there was
images that had copyright issues.
I'll show you another.
So I've selected shadows,
the paper topic,
and the title of this talk was
A Geometry-based Soft Shadows.
You'll see the slides are also-- this
one's all-- everything's in sync.
This one also included an animation.
So wherever speakers provided
us animations and demos,
we included them.
[Transcript missing]
This one actually the individual
included a QuickTime VR.
He sent it to us.
He probably didn't think we would
actually include it in the presentation,
but we actually did.
Here's his full QuickTime VR,
and you can actually move around
the space that he had given us.
I'll show you a final...
So any video that we
were able to include,
we were able, we put it in,
we compressed it,
and we synced it with their
PowerPoint presentations.
Can we switch to the other demo machine?
So I'll show you the keynote
because I'm going to talk a
little bit about it later.
At this moment it's my very great
pleasure to welcome Anthony Lazenby,
our SIGGRAPH 2003
So he also included animations.
And he had many animations
throughout his presentation.
You'll see the size of
the video is 320 by 240.
The size of the PowerPoint is 548 by 411,
so it's a fairly large size.
When I show you the OSA a little later,
the video will be smaller,
but the PowerPoints will
still be quite large.
Starship in the 3D hyperbolic space.
Now, this new technique we
call conformal geometry.
Now this presentation, the courses,
just to show you that,
Some of them included a lot of code.
Well, we wanted to make sure that
people could read the code,
so the video had to be,
the video presentation screen had to be
large enough so that people could clearly
see what the speaker was talking about.
[Transcript missing]
This was a special session that
included a demonstration of a
robot that Sony was developing.
[Transcript missing]
and the song that he used was
copyrighted and so Masahiro contacted
us and said well we could show
the video but we can't show the song
so we actually went through the video
and muted out the dance sequence.
So all through this,
the audio is muted out but
you get to still see what
was shown at the conference.
Robobot was actually interpreting a song,
so it was coming up with the dance moves
as--it wasn't a pre-programmed thing,
it was actually coming up with the dance
moves according to the song's beat.
[Transcript missing]
This was done as a promo for
the NHL and the LA Kings.
So before we get to the slides.
Okay,
let's go back to the slides and let's
see how we put this all together.
Okay, so these were the challenges.
The first one is how to digitize live
analog feeds to hard drives and tapes.
Then how to compress 800 gigabytes
to less than 17 gigabytes,
because we figured at the time that we
were going to put it on two 9-gig DVDs,
we actually got it down to 11,
so that's why we had one
9-gig and one 4.7-gig DVD.
Next really large challenge was
synchronizing 4,000 slides with
their videos and then synchronizing
the 140 videos with their slides.
Now,
the conference was at the end of July.
We did about a month,
six weeks of work pre-production
before the conference,
getting speaker permissions
and doing basically most of the
authoring and collecting the slides.
We had a deadline in October.
We actually finished work
on the product October 8th.
We had sent it to the DVD manufacturer.
Unfortunately,
the DVD manufacturer took a
lot longer and we ended up
delivering it in November,
not in October.
So here's the technology framework.
Everything begins and ends
basically with authoring.
We started building the whole iShell,
the whole project in developing
the skeleton structure within
the authoring environment.
We collected the slides.
So we collected as many
slides as we could beforehand,
the animations and videos.
We started doing the compression,
but we basically waited because
we know that speakers are
going to change their slides,
which often happens right
before the conference.
So we did most of the--we did all
the compression afterwards and
then we created a chapter list for
the presentation--for the slides.
At the conference, we captured the video,
then we compressed the video,
and then we also created,
we created chapter lists so
that we could synchronize them.
So everything was done in
the authoring environment to
synchronize the chapter lists.
and then we delivered it to both
DVD-ROM and on the web with our
online streaming application.
So let's begin with authoring.
Well, the authoring environment
had to be cross-platform.
It also had to be robust.
It couldn't, you know,
we didn't want it to crash.
We wanted to work on a
large number of machines.
We wanted to be able also to
create a really intuitive interface
that was really easy to use.
As I showed you,
three clicks basically gets you
anywhere in the player and you can
watch any presentation very quickly.
We also wanted an authoring tool that
we could build before the conference
and have it all ready so that all we
had to do was compress the videos,
synchronize them and put them
into the authoring environment.
And then very importantly,
having a file naming system,
something that you do in
the pre-production so it
makes your life really,
really easy.
So the authoring platform we
chose is TribeWorks iShell.
Their head office is not far from here.
and mainly we chose it
because it's cross-platform,
work Mac, Windows seamlessly.
We can deliver on DVD-ROM on the
web with very minimal changes.
The only changes we had
were the videos themselves.
One is going to a QuickTime streaming
server with the web version and the
other one is reading them off the DVD.
As well, TribeWorks iShell is really an
easy-to-use object-oriented environment,
so that translated to really
fast development times.
The whole interface was
developed in about two weeks.
The author environment also allowed
us to do the synchronization because
it includes advanced controls of
QuickTime with the chapter tracks.
So we did all the synchronizations
between the presentations
using chapter tracks.
So how did we capture all
of these chapter lists?
Well, we did a lot of it at
the conference itself.
We captured the slide timings
right at the conference,
put it in an Excel spreadsheet that had
a macro that outputted formatted text
file ready for embedding into QuickTime.
We also had to then, with a chapter list,
check the timing,
verify that it all was working properly,
that the spelling of the
slide titles was correct,
and that we could add these chapter
lists at the end to QuickTime.
Because we had to do all of that before
we could start synchronizing them,
because we had chapter
lists in both of them,
in both the PowerPoint and the video.
So this is how we captured the
content actually at the conference.
We got the AV source footage from
the AV crew at the conference.
We used the Canopus ADVC 500.
This is an analog-to-digital
video converter.
It actually goes both ways,
digital-to-analog and analog-to-digital.
It has two outputs, one firewire,
two firewire outputs that we could use.
One went to a DV cam deck.
That was actually our backup,
which we never had to use.
And the other went to a fire store,
which converted the video
information and stored it on our,
let's see, 500 gig hard drive.
So this is where we actually
had two hard drives at the
conferences in the two rooms.
And we were easily able to capture all
the presentations in those two rooms.
As well as the video.
So we had a terabyte
of storage and we only,
we didn't fill it all up.
So after you have the content,
you ought to prepare it for compression.
We had all these, many of them were four
presentations per session.
Well, we recorded the whole session,
so we had to think of, well,
what video editing
software we wanted to use.
We wanted something really easy to use
that all we wanted to do was the editing,
the in and the out points.
We also wanted to be able to remove
the copyrighted materials quite easily.
And we wanted to use the functionality
of QuickTime reference movies.
So what we used was QuickTime Pro.
Mainly, well, it's cross-platform.
It supported the different media types,
video, audio, text for the chapter lists.
QuickTime VR, which was great.
Flash, which we didn't have to use,
but there's so many things that
you could do with QuickTime.
And having the editing capabilities
right in the program is fantastic.
So all we had to do was set the in and
out points and create a reference movie.
Scriptability is really a key.
We didn't take advantage of it as
much as we will be taking advantage
of doing scripts in QuickTime.
Of course, adding the chapter tracks.
We were able to remove all the
audio and copyrighted images and
sounds all within the QuickTime Pro.
And we use QuickTime mainly because
we've used Sorensen Video 3 in the
past and we're getting into using
MPEG-4 and they work flawlessly for us.
So, QuickTime was our solution.
Well now we have to
move on to compressing.
We've got them all prepared,
the content all prepared,
but we have to compress the content.
So we have to determine what
kind of compression software.
We've used different ones in the past.
But we wanted one that was
fairly simple to use again,
that worked,
that we could come up with a workflow.
So once we edit all the videos,
we can get it into and
start compressing them.
So we wanted to be able to control the
settings for compression and do small
adjustments to the audio and the video.
So the compression software we used,
was Sorenson Squeeze 3.1.
Why it was really simple to use,
basic image adjustments.
All we wanted to really do was crop,
de-enderlace,
and adjust the gamma so that it would
look equally good on a PC and a Mac.
As we were editing the videos and saving
them as quick time reference movies,
we were dumping them
into our watch folder.
So once we had our compression settings,
it was just turning out,
our computers were compressing.
So we wanted to really use,
was Sorenson Video 3 for the
DVD-ROM and MPEG-4 for the
online streaming application.
And one final note,
we didn't actually have, it didn't crash.
The only time we had a problem was when
the power went out on the East Coast.
We were out for four days,
and that was right in the
middle of our encoding,
but that was the only problem that we
actually had with Sorenson Squeeze.
So it was really robust.
for our purposes.
So a little bit about
Sorenson Video 3 Pro.
We'd used it before
in a previous project.
We knew it fairly well.
Worked great on the DVD-ROM,
gave us really high-quality video,
as you can tell at the conference.
Very small file sizes,
and we can optimize the
compression settings.
Now, the fast compression times,
we were able to achieve
really good compression times.
The example here is the keynote,
which was 48 minutes in length.
We compressed it in 90 minutes on
a dual 1 GHz G4 with 1 Giga RAM,
and that was at a
resolution of 320 by 240.
Now with MPEG-4,
for the online streaming application,
we used it because it works great
with the QuickTime streaming server.
Really high quality and low bandwidth.
I will show you that later.
Really excellent audio codec.
Also, really fast compression times,
our keynote, which was 48 minutes,
compressed in 60 minutes
on a dual 1 GHz G4.
Now,
the frame size is a little bit smaller.
I'm not trying to compare
the two codecs here.
I'm just trying to give you a point
of reference in terms of how long it
took us to compress all of the video.
And basically at the end, the DVD-ROM,
all of the videos that we compressed
on the DVD-ROM took less than a week.
So it wasn't really the
bottleneck of the project.
Now back to the technology framework,
we went through the authoring,
went through the slides, capturing them,
how we collected the chapter lists.
And the key is that we synchronized
everything on the chapter list
between the slides and the video.
So now we're on to the delivery.
So we put it on to the
DVD-ROM and then on to the web.
So here are the differences.
The DVD-ROM has 140 demos and animations.
It's on two disks.
It includes a booklet.
So you can actually use it as
a reference to go through the,
to look for the presentation.
It's higher quality.
The video quality is better.
The video quality is
larger and it's smoother.
And it's available for
members and non-members.
On the other hand,
the online streaming application,
it's just one interface,
which I'll show you,
and it's free to all ACM and
ACM SIGGRAPH members.
Okay, so we'll go back to the demo on
the G5 and I'll load up the...
So this is the online streaming version.
It checks the internet
first to see if it's there.
It's actually just pinging a
server and then it'll load up.
This version actually
doesn't have the login.
The one on the net has a login,
so you have to be a member,
and it won't let you in
unless you're a member.
So the nice feature about the online
streaming application is the papers,
special sessions,
they're all in one environment.
So you don't have to change discs.
Okay, here we go.
So this is all running online
right now here from the conference.
So you have the keynote, the papers,
the courses, the special sessions.
It actually tells you at the bottom,
select an event.
So if you click on the keynote,
now it's downloading the next section.
It tells you at the bottom,
select a topic and you can
click on the keynote address.
and Anthony Lazenby.
And it tells you to
select a presentation.
You'll notice the blue highlights
as you go through the process,
so we try to make this
as easy as possible.
So let's press play to begin.
So this is connecting to
the QuickTime streaming
server at ACM SIGGRAPH.
You notice the video is smaller.
It's 240 by 180.
But the PowerPoint,
it's a bit more compressed,
but it's the same size,
so you still get to
see everything clearly.
And one great feature is the
chapter track still works.
So you can jump through the
presentation just like on the disc.
Now the only difference is
you don't get the animations.
We weren't going to put that much
bandwidth issues onto their server.
So all that's streaming right
now is his presentation.
So you do lose out on the animations,
but you get the full
PowerPoint presentation.
The feature I didn't show earlier,
you can actually move through the
presentations and pause the video.
You can move forward and backwards,
so if you want to scrutinize a
certain presentation or certain slide,
you can go and just pause it and look
at the different slides that way.
So with this interface we can also
see the papers which is really,
really handy.
And you'll see that
it'll load up over here.
Obviously it's not going to be as,
it's as fast as your internet
connection is going to be.
Gives you a little watch.
[Transcript missing]
Some presentations obviously take
a little longer to load as it is
downloading it from the Internet.
Now it's connecting it to the stream.
The audio quality is really good.
That's really key.
You want to make sure the audio
quality is very good because
that's what you're listening to.
And see the synchronization,
everything is all functioning very well.
You can adjust the volume here.
And you can again go through
the presentation quite quickly.
So if you've seen the
presentation and you're interested
in a particular section,
you can go to that area and
it'll jump right to that area.
It's a really handy feature.
It's very competitive and very expensive,
but we can speed.
Okay, let's go back to the slides.
So what were the bottlenecks?
A lot of people would have
thought it was the compression,
800 gigs down to 11 gigs.
How long that would take?
Well, it didn't take that long.
Once we had edited all the videos,
it didn't take that long
on the two machines that we
had dedicated for encoding.
What really took a long time was
developing the chapter list and creating
and then synchronizing those slides
with their videos and making sure
that the synchronization was correct.
Also, synchronizing the extra
animations with the slides.
There's all sorts of
issues related to that.
Now, the speaker permissions forms,
that was also a bottleneck because
you're contacting the speakers
after they've already been accepted
to speak at the conference.
They're busy and they
have to sign a form,
fax it in.
They have to upload their slides.
You're asking them to do a lot to do
and sometimes it's hard to contact them
and when you're contacting 120 people,
it took a long time to get through.
We still collected speaker permissions
long after the conference was
through mainly because we wanted
to include as many presentations
as possible on the DVD-ROM and
the online streaming application.
Removing the copyrighted materials.
That took a while because we had
to go through each presentation.
We knew on the speaker permission
form that they had copyrighted issues,
but we had to develop a way to
kind of remove those images and
sounds that we couldn't record or
couldn't keep in the presentation.
And of course testing
and troubleshooting,
that took a fair bit of time
to go through to make sure it
ran on a number of platforms,
a number of different computers and make
sure everything was working correctly.
And then of course the
manufacturing of the DVD-ROMs,
that took way too long.
We were really disappointed in that.
So how are we going to remove
the bottlenecks for 2004?
Well, last year's conference,
the compression wasn't a bottleneck.
This year, it's going to be when you're
dealing with 290 presentations as
opposed to 115 and 250 to 300 hours.
So what we've come up with,
we're putting together a dual G5 network.
So that should significantly
reduce the compression times.
For the speaker permissions forms,
we've actually come up with an online
speaker data management system.
So now speakers don't
have to fax anything in.
It's all, they're given,
they're sent an email with a password
and username and authorization
and basically a digital signature
and they can do everything online.
They can give us keywords,
they can give us their speaker profile
or their picture and their permission.
So it's a great system
that we've developed.
Well, we're in the process of coming
up with a way of automating the
chapter list so we can significantly
reduce the amount of time it took
to create all the chapter lists.
And then finally,
we picked a new DVD manufacturer
that will turn it around in 10
days as opposed to almost 6 weeks.
So a little bit about quality control.
The video quality and the compression
that we achieved here was due
because we had the best quality
audio feeds and video feeds.
If you think you're going to be
able to fix it in post-production,
you're wrong.
It's just going to take too long.
62 hours is too much video to go through,
so you really want the best
quality audio and video.
You also don't want to
do a lot of editing.
You only want to do in and out points,
basically when the presentation
starts and when it finishes.
If you're going to do other editing,
that's going to be a huge bottleneck.
And then experiment with
your compression settings.
I can give you the compression
settings for this product,
but every time we've done
a conference or a project,
we always use different settings because
whatever is optimized for one conference
doesn't necessarily work for another.
And the reason being is SIGGRAPH,
everybody was at a podium.
Nobody was allowed to walk around.
And the background, there was no shadows,
there was no issues like that.
It was really well lit,
so we could use a different setting.
We just did another project with ATI and
we didn't have the same kind of controls.
So we had to use completely
different compression settings to
still get a good quality video.
So, to summarize,
ACM SIGGRAPH 2003 was a big success.
We worked within
ACM SIGGRAPH's framework.
We created workflows that did actually
produce the project by October.
It was really well received by
the computer graphics community
and it did really well in sales.
So, for 2004, this year,
it's going to be a five-disk
DVD-ROM as opposed to a two-disk.
There will be an online
streaming application.
We're moving from two rooms to ten
rooms and it's going to go up to
about 250 to 300 hours of video.
So these are the improvements
for 2004 where we're recording
the whole conference.
We're including all the live demos,
so we're doing the demos a
completely different way this year.
We've got the online speaker
data management system.
Already it's working right now
because the conference is in August.
We're adding a search engine to our
product and we're developing a new method
for creating chapter lists and this will
inevitably improve the synchronization
of the slides and the video.
So to conclude,
I've gone through our knowledge
dissemination solution for SIGGRAPH.
I've talked to you about optimizing
high-quality audio and video,
creating the intuitive interface.
I've talked about the large
presentation window that we
used instead of a smaller one,
the chapter list that
we used for SIGGRAPH,
and now that we're working with 2004,
we're adding the search engine.
So our approach, I'll emphasize this,
is designed to serve an audience
who is interested in detailed and
in-depth information retrieval.
This means academics, researchers,
and developers.
So there's some contact information
for you there on the screen if
you're interested to talk to
these guys after the conference.
But I'd also like to take the
opportunity to let you ask some
questions if you have them.
Please come up to,
there's mics in the middle here
and on the side if you have
some questions for these guys.
And I'll ask Gudrun to
come back up on the stage.